# Building A Flexible Online Experiment Platform for Psychology Researchers
## With Robert Wilson, Fall 2019 - Present. [Exius](https://github.com/LaneLewis/Exius),[Teaching Task](https://github.com/LaneLewis/TeachingTask),[Horizon Task](https://github.com/LaneLewis/HorizonTask)
As the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic began back in the spring of 2019, the NRD psychology lab I was working with was suddenly thrust into a difficult position. We no longer had the ability to run subjects in the lab. In order to keep the lab rolling, we decided to transition some of our research online. However, we were met with several barriers with existing software for running human subjects through online pools. The first was the large cost associated with running subjects, especially since in the past we had dealt with very large subject pools. We also ran into the issue of platforms "locking you into" their service. For example, Pavlovia, while being a very well put together platform requires you to use their servers to store user data as well as use their development platform Psychopy/js to build your experiment. So, we sought to find a way to run human subjects for near nothing using existing services already used by our university with the flexability of using any html/javascript script for the experiment. This evolved over time to produce the current build, PsychoSite.

By early 2020, I had a beta version of PsychoSite for the NRD lab running, and we successfully collected data from several online experiments over several months with a net cost of 11$ to the lab which was only from purchasing a domain name. We were able to accomplish this by using the free tier amazon web services EC2 and DynamoDB,a free static website on github, and the lab's box account for storage. It was at this point that I realized that we could turn PsychoSite into a viable product for other labs besides ours. So, I began an entire redesign of the product. 

The goal of PsychoSite now is to accomplish several things:
1. Run experiments built with any framework as long as it outputs static html/javascript.  
2. Share researcher's code through open source repositories on github and promote both researchers sharing final experiment as well as their code used to generate it.
3. Archive experiments so that researchers can easily replicate and rerun them.
4. Be easy to use and intuitive with a nice GUI, but also have the ability for users to customize it for their use cases. 
5. Be platform independant and easy to launch so researchers can use the resources already available to them.
6. Be __FREE__ or near to it!

## The setup:
The backend, Exius, has been redesigned and rebuilt from the ground up. It is entirely dockerized with an NGINX proxy and auto-renewing SSL certificates. Exius is written in Node.js, and provides an interface for creating filtered endpoints to a box account that can limit the size, content, number of items, and write location of incoming items depending on the experiment. In addition, users can specify passwords for each experiment that need to be present in order to upload. This allows for experiments to be static, yet have the data being sent out by them to box be as secure as possible without doing a proper user verification process for every user that attempts to perform an upload. Researchers use their github accounts to do verification in order to create and modify endpoints created by their lab.
As of now, Exius is in alpha and can be found at [Exius Github](https://github.com/LaneLewis/Exius)

The new frontend for PsychoSite consists of an electron app that communicates with Exius to build experiments, locally use git on the researcher's computer, and provide users with a GUI. In addition, it allows users to build experiment flows and information passing between experiment components without needing to know how to use query strings. Finally, it lets them export their data from their experiment by importing a js module and calling a single function. Users can use the app to automatically create, version track, and periodically update an experiment on github pages. In addition they can launch a free backend on Heroku with the click of a button. This theoretically allows users to have a free PsychoSite using a free tier 5gb box storage, a free backend, and free website hosting through their github organization. Currently, the app is in heavy development, and is expected to release in alpha sometime in January 2021.

Several experiments for the lab that I built that have been run on PsychoSite are the [Teaching Task](https://github.com/LaneLewis/TeachingTask) and the [Horizon Task](https://github.com/LaneLewis/HorizonTask).
